.TH arrayCorrect 1 "January 26, 2007" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
\"
\" .TH arrayCorrect 1 "" "" ""
.SH NAME
arrayCorrect \- corrects microarray signal intensities
.SH SYNOPSIS
arrayCorrect [\-t tiling | genechip] \-c CELFILE \-d PROBESEQUENCE/(B)PMAP-FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Microarray signal intensities are affected by parasitic
interferences. The arrayCorrect program corrects these intensities to
obtain better measures for target RNA abundance. It currently supports
Affymetrix (c) 3' expression (genechip) and tiling microarrays, which
are treated differently. In genechip mode, arrayCorrect reads probe sequences
and probeset definitions from a tabular format text-file. In tiling
array mode, probe information is read from a PMAP/BPMAP file. arrayCorrect reads
probe signal intensities from CEL\-files in either mode.
.PP
After computing the corrections, arrayCorrect leaves a number of result and
diagnose files in the current working directory. There are multiple
expression measures that estimate the target concentration in
different ways. For each selected measure, arrayCorrect creates a
tabular file
that contains probe and probeset, respectively, expression
measures. The remaining
files contain diagnostic information such as sequence profiles and
hookcurve plots. The script "makePS" turns these results into an
integrated report pdf document.
.SH OPTIONS
.B General Options:
.TP
\-h [ \-\-help ]
Prints help message.
.TP
\-\-config-file arg
Import options from given config file.
.TP
\-t [ \-\-chip\-type ]
Type of the microarray chip, either "genechip" or "tiling".
.TP
\-i [ \-\-intensity\-file ]
Filename to contain the signal intensity information (CEL\-file)
.TP
\-c [ \-\-chip\-file ]
Name of the file to contain chip specific information. That
is either a tabular, PMAP or BPMAP file, depending on chip type.
.TP
\-a [ \-\-averaging\-method ]
Method to robustly determine probeset average intensity,
either "mean",  "median" or "tukey" (=One-step Tukey Biweight)
.TP
\-\-tukey\-tuning
Tuning constant for the one-step Tukey Biweight Method
.TP
\-l [ \-\-gLog\-parameter ]
gLog parameter c.
.TP
\-\-saturation\-computation arg (=0)            
Method to compute the saturation term I_max. Fit either hookcurve (0)
or use the average of n strongest probes (1)
.TP
\-\-probeset\-limit arg (=5000)
Maximum number of probes used to compute the sequence profiles (0 =
use all probes) (default: 5000 for expression arrays, 15000 for tiling
arrays)
.TP
\-\-print\-probe\-statistics
Writes statistics and expression measures similar to
probesetStatistics.dat on probe-level. Requires for plenty of
disk-space.
.TP
\-e [ \-\-expression\-measures ]
What expression measures shall be calculated:
    1000  : only PM
    0100  : only MM
    0010  : Diff (fast)
    0001  : Diff (gcrma\-like)
    0101  (guess what this does)
.PP
.B Detailed options:
.TP
\-\-background\-subtraction\-zones
Background subtraction divides the chip in zones^2 areas.
.TP
\-\-background\-subtraction\-ratio
Multiplicative factor applied to the background value
to be subtracted from each intensity
.TP
\-\-shuffling\-optimal\-probes\-per\-set
Number of probes that a probeset optimally contains
.TP
\-\-shuffling\-maximal\-probes\-per\-set
Number of probes that a probeset maximally contains
.TP
\-\-shuffling\-max\-probe\-distance
Maximum allowed distance between adjacent probes within a probeset
.TP
\-\-shuffling\-window\-size
Size of moving average window during shuffling
.TP
\-\-shuffling\-specific\-threshold
Probability above which a probe is considered target\-present
.PP
.B Hookcurve Options:
.TP
\-p [ \-\-detect\-ip ]
Method to detect inflection point: 
        0 = line and parabola
        1 = two straight lines in convenient intervals
        2 = first deviation
        3 = maximum of second deviation
.TP
\-\-interval\-count
Specifies the number of intervals for the FitTwoStraightLines
algorithm to detect the inflection point. This should usually
not be changed. In some cases it might be useful to change
it to some higher value
.TP
\-w [ \-\-hookcurve\-window\-size ]
For the hookcurve, the number of probesets to average over
.TP
\-r [ \-\-sequence\-profile\-rank ]
Rank of the sequence profile model, i.e. mononucleotide (1),dinucleotide
(2) or more
.TP
\-d [ \-\-digitize\-intervals ]
Number of intervals the hookcurve is digitized to fit the functions to
detect inflection point. 0 equals no digitization
.TP
\-\-set\-uncorrected\-kinkpoint arg (=0)    
Set kink point of uncorrected hookcurve (0 to compute)
.TP
\-\-set\-corrected\-kinkpoint arg (=0)
Set kink point of corrected hookcurve (0 to compute)
.PP
.B Debugging Options:
.TP
\-g [ \-\-debug\-mode ]   
Print additional information and statistics. Slower.
.TP
\-\-probeset\-size\-filter arg (=0) 
When set to >0, only probesets of that particular size are processed
.TP
\-y [ \-\-universal\-param ] arg    
Parameter that might be used for different debug options
.TP
\-m [ \-\-maskfile ] arg           
The argument defines a maskfile (ascii) that lists the probesets by
their id that are not considered for calculation 
.TP
\-\-read\-profiles                 
Read sequence profiles from files. All profile .dat files must reside
in current working directory.
.TP
\-\-use\-gstacks\-correction
Corrects for sequence effects specific to some affymetrix arrays
(e.g. g-stacks).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Correct a expression array with default parameters:
arrayCorrect \-i ~/celFiles/LatinSquareA1.CEL \-c ~/mapFiles/ProbeSequence.txt
.PP
.TP
Correct tiling microarray using nearest-neighbor model for sequence effects and the fit-two-lines algorithm with 10 intervals for computation of the inflection point:
arrayCorrect \-t tiling \-r 2 \-p 1 \--interval-count 10 \-i ~/celFiles/M-Chip_13.CEL \-c ~/mapFiles/Hs35b_M13R_v01_NCBIv35.bpmap
.PP
\" .SH REFERENCES
\" blub
.SH AUTHORS
Mario Fasold, Jan Bruecker
